My aim for this improvement is to be able to access the OMV NAS from anywhere on any network, not just my own. To do this requries the use of a VPN Tunnel such as Tail... which I will be using. However in my specific case my NAS is set up on a WiFi 
network that i do not have control over as it is controlled by my housing provider. To overcome this issue I have purchased a GL-iNet SFT1200 router that will take an internet connection in and broadcast my own private network out. It also allows me 
full access to its admin control panel to set up services like port forwarding and firewalls. 

The new network diagram for my small home lab NAS is now: 

                       [ HOUSING INTERNET ]
                                │
                      (Shared Network WAN)
                                │
                      [ Wall Ethernet Outlet ]
                                │
                                ▼
                         ┌─────────────┐
                         │   ROUTER    │
                         │  (SFT1200)  │
                         │             │
                         └─────┬───────┘
                               │
           ┌──────────────────┴────────────────────┐
           │                   │                    │
     [Wi-Fi Signal]       [LAN Port 1]         [LAN Port 2]
           │                   │                    │
      Wireless Devices   ┌────────────┐        ┌─────────────┐
     (Phones, Tablets,   │ Raspberry  │        │ Windows     │
       Other PCs, etc.)  │   Pi NAS   │        │  Laptop     │
                         │ (OMV NAS)  │        │             │
                         └────────────┘        └─────────────┘
I connected all devices as shown above and rebooted my PiNAS and tried to connect to its dashboard that I configured previously. However this was not possible and the PiNAS was not showing up as a device in the admin panel of the router either. 
Troubleshooting this issue lead me to believe that OMV had created a static IP for the Pi when initally setting it up on the shared housing network, meaning that it would never show up under my new routers subnet. To fix this I needed to re-enable 
DHCP to assign a new IP address in the routers subnet to the Pi, therefore making it accessible. 

To do this I ran the command `sudo omv-firstaid` which brings up a GUI element where you can configure networking and turn on DHCP. 

Once this was enabled the Pi assigned itself a new IP address in the new routers subnet which allowed me to see it in the routers admin panel as well as reconenct to the OMV admin panel and access my Shared folders. 


Installing and setting up Tailscale:

1. Create Tailscale account in a web browser 
2. Use curl to setup the repo for tailscale 
3. Update the system then install tailscale with `sudo apt get-install tailscale -y`
4. Start the Tailscale service with `systemctl --now tailscaled`
5. Authenticate to tailscale with `sudo tailscale up --ssh`. This will provide a login URL to open in a browser and sign in to your tailscale account to 
add the device to your network 
6. Check the tailscale IP, using `tailscale ip -4`, which should be in the format, `100.x.x.x`

The PiNAS's shared folders are now accesible from any device on the tailscale network. Add more devices by downloading tailscale on them and signing in. 

To actually access the shared folders on Windows and Linux we need to repeat the steps we did previously when setting up the shared folders but change the IP
address of the network folders to the new Tailscale IP address.

After this step I once again have access to my shared folders, however this time they are accessible even when not on my local network.

Now that the NAS is accesible anywhere I want it to have an easier to remember name than the IP address. I enabled magicDNS in my tailscale account
and set the hostname of my device to an easy to remember one of my choosing. Now to access the dashboard you only have to type http://hostname into a browser.

Finally to make sure that, in the case of a power cycle event, my NAS is still accessible I made sure tailscale was set to run on boot by checking:
`systemctl status tailscaled` to check then `sudo systemctl enable tailscaled`. 

Setting up system monitoring:

I want to be able to monitor my system usage for the physical hardware and NAS remotely so I am setting up Netdata as a powerful monitor accessible via a 
MagicDNS URL. 

1. Install Netdata with  `bash <(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh)`
2. Configure Netdata to run on boot and start it
3. Install OMV specific intergration with `sudo apt install netdata-plugin-openmediavault -y`
4. Enable the service both on startup and immediately

Now I can access the dashboard via its MagicDNS URL's remotely to check on the status of my PiNAS






